---
title: Be In Action
author: Tim Samuel
date: 2020-06-20
tags: [productivity]
---

Trying to learn a skill is frustrating. We receive bursts of energy, bursts of
motivation but it isn’t sustained. Time is spent developing a plan on how best
to learn the skill, which eventually leads to a rabbit hole of pursuing the
infinitely perfect methodology to learn something as efficiently as possible.
This is phrased as being in motion, a concept identified by James Clear the
author of Atomic Habits. When we are in motion, we attempt to allocate the best
learning resources towards our journey, but to do so we initially acquire a mass
amount and rank them. To rank these resources, we find more resources and so on
and so on. It’s similar to scouring reddit for the best book to learn python
from, but a week goes by and you realize you still haven’t learned any Python at
all. I believe a vital reason which prevents us from initially focusing on a
critical task is because we lack the confidence to do so. This lack of
confidence plays into why we desire the best when the good is good enough.

This philosophy can be applied to general life decisions as well, _e.g._
identify a restaurant to eat at, what movie to watch with your friends, etc. I
was personally so consumed with trying to find the best that I realized that in
doing so, I enjoyed the experience less and also wasted a substantial amount of
time. I reaped the greatest benefits when I took action.

It’s ironic. We try to maximize our benefits while minimizing the amount of time
it takes to achieve them. In theory, it seems lucrative. But for the
aforementioned purposes, it is not. Be in action. Don’t waste time trying to
save time.
